---
title: School Counselling
permalink: /resources/students/well-being-guide/school-counselling/
description: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<h2>Introduction</h2><p>Sometimes life can be tough, and teenagers growing up can be under pressure.</p><p>Having someone, you can really talk to may be a help - perhaps a friend, a teacher, your parents, or someone in the family.</p><p>At times, everyone feels worried or has problems that may be hard to talk about with the people close to you.&nbsp; You may worry about whether they will understand, whether you can trust them, whether they will blame you, or ignore your feelings.&nbsp; That is when you may think about talking to the school counsellor.</p><h2>Why there is a need for school counselling?</h2><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>As Change</p></li><li><p>As Prevention</p></li><li><p>As Life enhancement</p></li></ul><p>School Counselling aims at helping the our students in improving the ways of coping with problems, adapting to changing life demands, and having a new and deeper understanding, appreciation, and wisdom about life's many potentialities.</p><h2>How does counselling work?</h2><p>Counselling Service is part of the Whole-school Framework for Learning, Emotional, and Behavioural Support.</p><p>Seeing the school counsellor might be your idea, or your parents’ or a teacher might suggest it.</p><p>You do not have to decide straight away.&nbsp; You can meet the school counsellor first, to ask questions and find out more.&nbsp; Counselling should be voluntary to be effective in supporting you.</p><h2>Who are the school counsellors?</h2><p>School counselling is carried out by trained school counsellors. They are employed by the MOE or the school, and work within a code of ethics and practice.</p><p>Our school counsellor has the following educational qualifications:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Diploma in School Counselling (National Institute of Education, Singapore)</p></li><li><p>Bachelor of Science in Psychology (University of Southern Queensland, Australia)</p></li><li><p>Bachelor of Arts (National University of Singapore)</p></li></ul><p>She is also trained in&nbsp;<em>Mindfulness Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT)</em>&nbsp;and&nbsp;<em>Teach .b program</em>.</p><h2>How do I find out more or ask to see the school counsellor?</h2><p>Ask a teacher or look for our school counsellor Madam Lynne Lee at the counselling room that is located at BLK E 02-07.&nbsp; &nbsp;Alternatively, you may email her for an appointment at&nbsp;<a href="mailto:Lee_Chye_Poh@schools.gov.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Lee_Chye_Poh@schools.gov.sg</a>.</p>