---
title: Lower Secondary Programme  (For Sec 1 and 2 AY2023)
permalink: /our-curriculum/academic-learning/lower-sec-programme-2023/
description: ""
third_nav_title: Academic Learning
variant: tiptap
---
<h3>Lower Secondary Programme</h3><p>At the lower secondary levels, all students will offer:</p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Core Subjects</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Common Curriculum Subjects</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Experiential Modules</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>English Language</p></li><li><p>Mother Tongue Languages (MTL)</p></li><li><p>Mathematics</p></li><li><p>Science</p></li><li><p>Humanities</p></li></ul></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Character &amp; Citizenship Education (CCE)</p></li><li><p>Physical Education (PE)</p></li><li><p>Art</p></li><li><p>Music</p></li><li><p>Design &amp; Technology (D&amp;T)</p></li><li><p>Food &amp; Consumer Education (FCE).</p></li></ul></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Coding@Xinmin</p></li><li><p>RefleXions@Xinmin.</p></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table><p><strong>Core Subjects</strong><br>With the implementation of Full Subject Based Banding (FSBB), students can learn the core subjects at the level that best caters to their overall strengths, interests and learning needs. Certain core subjects will be offered at a more demanding level (MDL) at three specific junctures.</p><p><strong>Common Curriculum Subjects</strong><br>Under Full SBB, Express, N(A), and N(T) streams will be phased out from 2024 onwards. Currently, Xinmin students will be placed in mixed form classes at lower secondary where they can interact with peers of different strengths and interests via the common curriculum. Differentiated instruction (D.I.), customisation and project-based learning are key levers to achieve these developmental objectives among diverse learners:</p><p><br></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Subjects</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Development objectives</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Character &amp; Citizenship Education (CCE)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Build good character, resilience and well-being, active citizenship and future readiness.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Physical Education (PE)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Demonstrate individually and with others, the physical skills, practices and values to enjoy a lifetime of active healthy living.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Art</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Develop artistic skills and understanding through active experiences and surface different levels and aspects of artistic strengths.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Music</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Developing lifelong musical interest and abilities through Listening, Creating and Performing.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Design &amp; Technology (D&amp;T)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Hone students creative and inventive thinking through design-and-make projects.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Food &amp; Consumer Education (FCE)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Empower students to be health-conscious and discerning consumers; and enabling them to better manage their lives for the present and future.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p><strong>Experiential Modules</strong><br>Beyond the core subjects and the common curriculum, Xinmin students are further exposed to two essential experiential modules to hone their 21st century skills and competencies further.</p><p>• <strong>Coding@Xinmin</strong><br>‘If you want to uncover the secrets of the universe, or you want to pursue a career in the 21st century, basic computer programming is an essential skill to learn.’ ~ Stephen Hawkings</p><p>Through Coding@Xinmin, students:<br></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Discover and develop computational thinking.<br></p></li><li><p>Acquire fundamental programming skills and languages.<br></p></li><li><p>Attempt challenges requiring conceptualisation and problem-solving.<br></p></li><li><p>Learn through gamification.<br></p></li></ol><p>• <strong>RefleXions@Xinmin</strong><br>Drama education teaches students how to communicate, how to listen, and how to be empathetic.’ ~ Andrew Lloyd Webber</p><p>Through RefleXions@Xinmin, students:<br></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Gain exposure and learn to apply elements of drama skills.<br></p></li><li><p>Acquire thinking routines that encourage critical thinking and reflection.<br></p></li><li><p>Create original scripts and put up drama performances.<br></p></li><li><p>Develop pre-requisites to offer Drama at upper secondary.<br></p></li></ol><h3>Current Secondary 1 students (In Academic Yr 2023)</h3><p>The allocation of subject/levels is provided by MOE’s placement branch based on students’ PSLE Achievement Levels (ALs).</p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Subject</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Achievement Level</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Level at which subject can be taken</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>English</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>AL 5</p><p>AL 6</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Express</p><p>Normal (Academic)</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mother Tongue Languages (MTL)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>AL 5</p><p>AL 6</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Express</p><p>Normal (Academic)</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mathematics</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>AL 5</p><p>AL 6</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Express</p><p>Normal (Academic)</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Science</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>AL 5</p><p>AL 6</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Express</p><p>Normal (Academic)</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>To offer Higher Mother Tongue Languages (HMTL) - Chinese, Malay, Tamil and Non-Tamil Indian Languages (NTIL), students should preferably obtain either:<br><br></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Studied HMTL in primary school; Pass in HMTL for PSLE; and PSLE overall lower than AL16.<br><br></p></li><li><p>Did not take HMTL in primary school; Scored AL1or 2 in MTL for PSLE; and PSLE overall lower than AL16.<br><br>Note: Students taking Tamil or NTIL will be taking lessons at designated schools or language centres, and not in Xinmin Secondary School.</p></li></ol><p>Beyond the start of Secondary 1, students may offer these subjects at more demanding level (MDL) based on their performance in school, as well as by demonstrating positive attitude towards learning.</p><h3>Secondary 2 students (In Academic Year 2023)</h3><p>• The lower secondary programme spans over 2 years so students will continue the same set of subjects taken in Secondary 1.</p><p>• Students who were offered English, MTL, Mathematics, Science (in Secondary 1) at MDL will continue to take them at Secondary 2. Those who performed well for the Humanities in Secondary 1 will have the opportunity to offer at least History, Geography or Literature at MDL in Secondary 2. The criteria for taking Humanities at a more demanding level will be based on students' aptitude for and interest in these subjects at Secondary 1.</p><p>• Students are advised to challenge themselves and master the subjects up to the end of Secondary 2.</p>